Import/Export in the uP5 Manual(#1241) (#2859)
uPortal-Project/uPortal: docs/import_export/README.md

# Import/Export Documentation for uPortal 5

## Overview

The Import/Export tool in uPortal 5 allows users to transfer configuration data and settings between instances, facilitating data migration and backup.

## Data tasks

> - **dataImport**: Adds to or updates the portal database for the entities defined in the specified XML file(s). Requires -Dfile={path-to-file} or -Ddir={path-to-directory}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dataImport**: Adds to or updates the portal database for the entities defined in the specified XML file(s). Requires `-Dfile={path-to-file}` or `-Ddir={path-to-directory}`
```

> - **dataList**: With no arguments (-Dtype={entity-type}) lists all supported portal data types and the operations (export, delete) supported for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dataList**: With no arguments (`-Dtype={entity-type}`) lists all supported portal data types and the operations (export, delete) supported for each.
```

> - **dataExport**: Creates XML files representing the requested entities and writes them to the specified file system location. Parameters: -Ddir={path-to-directory} -Dtype={entity-type} [-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dataExport**: Creates XML files representing the requested entities and writes them to the specified file system location. Parameters: `-Ddir={path-to-directory}` `-Dtype={entity-type}` `[-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]`
```

> - **dataDelete**: Deletes the specified entity. Requires -Dtype={entity-type} and -Dsysid={id}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dataDelete**: Deletes the specified entity. Requires `-Dtype={entity-type}` and `-Dsysid={id}`
```

- **dataInit**: Drop and recreate uPortal tables and reimport data

## Running Tasks via Gradle

> To run the Import/Export tool via Gradle, navigate to the uPortal project directory and execute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the Import/Export tool via Gradle, execute the following from uPortal-start
```

Interestingly, the tasks are not available in this repo, but in the uPortal-start repo

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:<task-name> -D<options>

```

## Importing Data

### Import Multiple Files

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataImport -Ddir={path-to-directory} [-Dpattern={ant-pattern}]

```

### Import Single File

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataImport -Dfile={path-to-file}

```

### Import Single File (uPortal 4.3+)

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataImport -Dfiles={comma-separated-list-of-files}

```

### Import List File (uPortal 4.3+)

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataImport -DfilesListFile={path-to-file}

```

## Listing Data

### List Types

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataList

```

### List Data of a Specific Type

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataList -Dtype={entity-type}

```

## Exporting Data

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataExport -Ddir={path-to-directory} -Dtype={entity-type} [-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]

```

## Deleting Data

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataDelete -Dtype={entity-type} [-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]

```

## Reinitializing Data (Drop & Recreate Tables)

```bash
./gradlew :overlays:uPortal:dataInit

```

## Import/Export Logs

> Logs for Import/Export operations can be found in the `UPORTAL_ROOT/target/data-import-reports` directory. Look for `data-import.txt` for summary reports. If errors occur, individual error report files will also be generated for each failed object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logs for Import/Export operations can be found in the `uPortal-start/overlays/uPortal/build/data-import-reports` directory. Look for `data-import.txt` for summary reports. If errors occur, individual error report files will also be generated for each failed object.
```

> # Import/Export Documentation for uPortal 5

Reviewer 2: This could be made clearer
```suggestion
# Configuration Data Import and Export Guide for uPortal 5
```

## Overview
The Import/Export tool in uPortal 5 allows users to transfer configuration data and settings between instances, facilitating data migration and backup.

## Supported Operations
- **IMPORT**: Adds or updates entities from XML files in the portal database.
- **LIST**: Lists supported data types and existing entities.
- **EXPORT**: Creates XML files of specified entities and saves them to a location.
- **DELETE**: Removes specified entities and their dependencies from the portal database.

## Importing Data

### Import Multiple Files

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: It's easier to read when there is an empty newline after the heading and before the content
````suggestion

```bash
````

ant data-import -Ddir={path-to-directory} [-Dpattern={ant-pattern}]
```

### Import Single File

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: It's easier to read when there is an empty newline after the heading and before the content
````suggestion

```bash
````

ant data-import -Dfile={path-to-file}
```

### Import Single File (uPortal 4.3+)

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: It's easier to read when there is an empty newline after the heading and before the content
````suggestion

```bash
````

ant data-import -Dfiles={comma-separated-list-of-files}
```

> ### Import List File (uPortal 4.3+)
> ```bash

Reviewer 2: It's easier to read when there is an empty newline after the heading and before the content
````suggestion
### Import List File (uPortal 4.3+)

```bash
````

ant data-import -DfilesListFile={path-to-file}
```

## Listing Data

### List Types
```bash
ant data-list
```

> ### List Data of a Specific Type
> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
### List Data of a Specific Type

```bash
````

> ant data-list -Dtype={entity-type}
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
ant data-list -Dtype={entity-type}
```

Replace `{entity-type}` with the type of entity you wish to list (e.g., `portlets`, `groups`).
````

## Exporting Data
```bash
ant data-export -Ddir={path-to-directory} -Dtype={entity-type} [-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]
```

> ## Deleting Data
> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
## Deleting Data

```bash
````

> ant data-delete -Dtype={entity-type} [-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
ant data-delete -Dtype={entity-type} [-Dsysid={entity-identifier}]
```

Replace `{entity-type}` with the type of entity you wish to list (e.g., `portlets`, `groups`).
````

> ## Import/Export Logs
> Logs for Import/Export operations can be found in the `UPORTAL_ROOT/target/data-import-reports` directory. Look for `data-import.txt` for summary reports. If errors occur, individual error report files will also be generated for each failed object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Import/Export Logs

Logs for Import/Export operations can be found in the `UPORTAL_ROOT/target/data-import-reports` directory. Look for `data-import.txt` for summary reports. If errors occur, individual error report files will also be generated for each failed object.
```

> ## Troubleshooting
> Refer to the logs for detailed error messages if operations fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting

Refer to the logs for detailed error messages if operations fail.
```

> ## Additional Resources
> - [uPortal 4.1 Importing and Exporting Data](https://apereo.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/UPM41/pages/103942373/Importing+and+Exporting+data)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Additional Resources

- [uPortal 4.1 Importing and Exporting Data](https://apereo.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/UPM41/pages/103942373/Importing+and+Exporting+data)
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

# Configuration Data Import and Export Guide for uPortal 5

> ## Overview
> The Import/Export tool in uPortal 5 allows users to transfer configuration data and settings between instances, facilitating data migration and backup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Overview

The Import/Export tool in uPortal 5 allows users to transfer configuration data and settings between instances, facilitating data migration and backup.
```

> ## Supported Operations
> - **IMPORT**: Adds or updates entities from XML files in the portal database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported Operations

- **IMPORT**: Adds or updates entities from XML files in the portal database.
```

- **LIST**: Lists supported data types and existing entities.
- **EXPORT**: Creates XML files of specified entities and saves them to a location.
- **DELETE**: Removes specified entities and their dependencies from the portal database.

## Importing Data

### Import Multiple Files

```bash
ant data-import -Ddir={path-to-directory} [-Dpattern={ant-pattern}]
```

### Import Single File

```bash
ant data-import -Dfile={path-to-file}
```

### Import Single File (uPortal 4.3+)

```bash
ant data-import -Dfiles={comma-separated-list-of-files}
```

### Import List File (uPortal 4.3+)

```bash
ant data-import -DfilesListFile={path-to-file}
```

## Listing Data

> ### List Types
> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
### List Types

```bash
````
